Hello welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
In today's tutorial we're going to cover up quite a complex tutorial called eligibility trace or and
step.
Q learning and this is something I going to implement in the practical side of things so that's why
we need to come out of and at center it is quite a complex topic so we've got a very interesting approach
to getting us up to speed with the intuition behind.
So I have like a different approach in mind than we're used to solaced the simple look at that and see
how that goes.
So I want to give you an example to start off with.
I'm going to give you an example in this tutorial and that will demonstrate the power of eligibility.
And give us the intuition behind things.
And then if you like to delve further into eligibility traits I'll give you the best place where you
can read about it.
I'll give you a reference to a book but otherwise.
So while this is going to be different because we're into it first rather than delving into the intuition
we're going to look at an example and the intuitional become obvious after we talk about.
And that's that's my hope so.
So let's have a look.
Let's see let's see if we can do this.
So here we've got two agents and they're navigating the same environment and we're going to see how
these two agents work.
First one is going to work with our eligibility trace.
Second one is going to work with illegibly trace and hopefully we'll see why the second one is going
to be so much more powerful than the first one.
So let's have a look.
We're going to look at this agent first.
And the way he operates is the exact way that we've discussed deep circular thing so far.
So the agent is going to take a step or is going to move take an action move into a new state.
Good to get a certain reward is going to put that through or through its algorithm update the neural
network that's running this agent or that's running in the mind of this agent.
So that's basically how it's learning from that moment is going to take a new step.
So from this new state is going to take a new action based on what its neural network is telling it
to do is going to get rewards going up update and so on and is going to keep doing that.
So obviously this is going to do quite a good job and as we've seen previously from the previous practical
Squire to DROs we're going to get some quite good results here but now we're going to add a new feature.
Now this agent number two this guy over here he's going to navigate the same environment.
What's he's going to use legibility of trees.
And this is what it means.
What he's going to do is he's going to take any steps he's going to take in this case five forceps is
going to take four steps and then only after taking these steps will he gets calculate the total reward
that he got from those steps and he will put it through his network.
He will put it through his neural network that's governing the decision making process and then the
neural network will learn from that.
So which one.
Right away like Which one do you think is more powerful.
The guy that is just taking it one step at a time and kind of like poking in the blind or in the dark
and he's like OK so I'm going to take a step see what happens.
Take a step see what happens.
Take steps.
What happens.
The guy at the top or the guy that takes just very courageously Marsha's through four steps in a row
and then he decides whether those were good steps or not altogether and why you can see here or why
you're probably getting a sense for why the second guy is better or is more powerful is because the
second guy actually knows what's at the end.
The first guy when he's when he's assessing whether this step is good or not he's only looking at the
reward that he's getting.
And so he's only guided by the reward the environment is giving him.
Same thing here he's only guided by the reward that this environment is giving him here.
So every time that's his only kind of compass that he has the reward the reward the reward.
Whereas here the he actually can assess after taking the steps he can assess.
OK so I did get to the finish line.
So this combination of steps was good.
All of them were good.
Or Oh no I ended up in the firepit or Ohno I.
I did and when the the my car didn't get to the finish line or I crossed the sand wall or I lost the
game of doom or something.
And then he decides from that this whole combination of steps is bad.
And therefore for these steps that are earlier on he has more information.
He has more insights like in a very intuitive approaches.
Again this is a much more complex topic than we're portraying here.
But in an intuitive way for example if you take this step this step only has information to you to obtain
it you only have information coming back from this reward here.
And for this step in this case the same exact step.
It has more information has information coming all the way from.
OK so what was the outcome after four steps or five steps or whatever.
Yes so that is that is how it works and why it's called eligibility trace is because during this process
not only does he look at the computer reward of this of what's going on and then the cumulative loss
and then all that is appropriate.
But actually there is a trace of eligibility as what is called the disability trust.
There is a trace that is kept in an algorithm which says OK so if we do get a let's say we get a punishment
we get a negative reward then which of these steps is most likely to be eligible for that punishment.
So not only do we know what overall this whole pattern or the school combination of steps but we also
keep an a trace of eligibility which steps are we going to update if we get everyone.
So for instance if as a negative reward we might have an eligibility trace that indicates to us that
this is a step that is most responsible for what we got in the end or if it's a positive reward again
we might know the algorithm helps us keep track this eligibility algorithm also helps us keep track
of what's what step or what action needs to be is eligible eligible to be updated based on that reward
that we get.
And that's why it's called eligibility trace.
And so that's the basic intuition behind eligibility and hopefully these two examples of these agents
make it quite obvious or are quite intuitive in while these abilities can be so powerful.
And if as promised if you'd like to delve further into topical eligibility traces or step learning then
a wonderful amazing book which is which you can find is called reinforcement learning.
An introduction is by Richard Sutton Andrew Barto 1998.
I think they're in the process of creating a second edition or the very critical issue.
But this is the most common or the most popular or the most referenced book on enforcement learning
it's got a ridiculous number of citations.
I think like tens of thousands if I'm not mistaken.
And also the chapter you need for this is Chapter 7.
So in order to look at eligibility choices there's a whole chapter about Chapter 7.
You can read about it and it goes into lots of detail.
Forward Backward eligibility traces and also how integral temporal difference on one hand and the other
end of the spectrum you have Monte-Carlo methods in between you have eligibility traces allegedly traces
or you link to go from temporal differences to Monte-Carlo methods.
Very interesting read lots of pictures which I really really appreciated very intuitive explanations.
So there's lots of things that you can learn from this book about artificial intelligence and reinforcement
learning but specifically eligibility traces are like a very good place to go to is this book for eligibility
traces.
And the second reference for today is something that is going to show you in the practical trials the
deep learning or the Google deep mind research paper on a synchronous methods for a deeper reinforcement
learning.
Yes that's the paper that's the one paper that the A-3 see paper that we're going to be discussing further
down in the score.
We're getting closer and closer to it.
And as you can tell we're pretty excited about this so this is going to be looking a little bit about
how they implemented eligibility traces in this paper so we're going to be using this more for the practical
side of things.
So hopefully you enjoyed today's tutorial and know you're a bit more comfortable with eligibility traces
and I can't wait to see you next time.
Until then enjoy a.